Add a `$reduce` operator (#531)
json-e/json-e: docs/src/operators.md

result: {ax: 2, bx: 3, cx: 4}
```

## `$reduce`

The `$reduce` operator evaluates an expression with each value of the given array and

> the result of the prior expression, reducing the array or object into a single JSON value.

Reviewer: "array or object"

> the result of the prior expression, reducing the array or object into a single JSON value.

Reviewer: Still has language about iterating over objects.

> This operation is sometimes called `fold`, `accumulate`, `aggregate`, `reduce`, or `inject`.

Reviewer: Do we need to repeat "reduce" in this list?

result: {ax: 2, bx: 3, cx: 4}
```

## `$reduce`

The `$reduce` operator evaluates an expression with each value of the given array or object and

> the result of the prior expression.  Reducing the array or object into a single JSON value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the result of the prior expression, reducing the array or object into a single JSON value.
```

> An initial result is passed in for the first evaluation of the expression.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An initial value is passed as the accumulator for the first evaluation of the expression.
```

Reviewer 2: Also it might be worth mentioning that this is also known as "fold" or "accumulate", just in case that matches the term from users' preferred language.

Reviewer: "aggregate" is another one I see a lot

### Over Arrays

The `each` function defines the accumulated, or prior result, and the current value.  The result of
this function will be passed as the accumulated to the next call of `each`.

```yaml,json-e
template:
  $reduce: [{name: Apple, price: 1}, {name: Orange, price: 0.75}, {name: Pear, price: 1.1}]
  initial: 0
  each(acc, v): {$eval: 'acc + v.price'}
context:  {}
result:   2.85
```

The `each` function can define three variables, in which case the third is the 0-based index of the element.

```yaml,json-e
template:
  $reduce: [2, 5, 8]
  initial: 0
  each(acc, v, i): {$eval: 'acc + v * 10 ** i'}
context:  {}
result:   852
```

### Over Objects

The `each` function defines variables for the accumulated, value, and key, in that order.

```yaml,json-e
template:

>   $reduce: A

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  $reduce: {$eval: "A"}
```

  initial: 10

>   each(acc, v, k):

Reviewer: There may be some implementation consistency issues here.  Some languages don't iterate over objects in a deterministic way.  We've seen in JSON Schema where iteration over objects produces the children in varying orders even within the same language sometimes.  Depending on the function, that could produce different results with each run.

Author: Yes.  I am assuming that when iterating over objects the order is non-deterministic.  And that when using `$reduce` people will take this into account.

Reviewer 3: Yeah the order can't be trusted, it's also left out in iteration over objects in [maps](https://json-e.js.org/operators.html#over-objects). So maybe for consistency we should leave it out?

Reviewer 2: It isn't that $map doesn't specify order. Order of object keys is simply not defined, in the sense that two objects are equal if every key/value pair in one is also in the other. So, $map is deterministic: given an object, it produces an object.

We should avoid anywhere where the implementation detail of the order in which iteration occurs over an object has an effect on the results, rather than relying on the template author to ensure this. Otherwise two renderings of the same template with the same context could sometimes have different results, which would cause all manner of intermittent bugs.

In this case, I think that restriction requires either defining the order in which that iteration occurs (sorted keys), or simply not defining the operator over objects. Since we already have $sort, I would lean toward the latter.

Reviewer: My concern was heightened when I saw [this comment and use case](https://github.com/json-e/json-e/pull/531#issuecomment-2351144096).  Looking at it again, it looks like all of the orderings are explicitly specified by the embedded arrays, but it's not a long leap to end up with something that depends on key selection order.

Reviewer 2: I believe Python at least randomizes the order of its maps, so if we do introduce a dependency on order hopefully tests will find it.

Author: It certainly would be clearer to have `$reduce` only work over arrays.  The only reason I included working over objects is that I started the `$reduce` code by copying the `$map` code.

Reviewer 2: Let's do that (only work over arrays).

If it becomes necessary, we can discuss how to best support `$reduce` over objects at that time.

Reviewer: @tadpol you marked this as resolved, but I still see iterating over objects in the docs.

Author: Oh for. I completely forgot to update the docs. Thanks for catching that.
